Pseudocode - Running a Marathon

Choose a race at least 18 weeks away
Select a training program
Decide if you are a beginner, intermediate, or advanced runner
Keep in mind you should already have some experience in running
In general, you need to be able to run a total of 15 to 25 miles per week
Choose running shoes
Visit a running shoe store to be properly fit for your shoes
Purchase any other gear you might need (running shorts, tank top, socks, etc)
Begin your training
There are a variety of marathon training plans, but they share a few basic elements. To increase your stamina gradually and avoid injury, run 3 times per week with a rest day between each session. Do a long distance run just once a week, and focus on speed and pacing on the other days.
Warm up and cool down before and after your runs.
Increase your distances by 10% to 20% per week for about 10 weeks
Decrease your distances by 25% to 50% per week in the last 3 weeks. 
Taper your training sessions toward the end of the program so you’ll be fully recovered and ready for the big day. Marathon training plans are usually at least 16 weeks; your longest run should take place around week 13. Scale down weeks 14 and 15, then do 1 to 2 light 15 to 30-minute runs during week 16
Refuel with a healthy snack or meal within 15 minutes after a run. 
To promote muscle recovery, eat right after you’ve finished running. That goes for training sessions and the big race. Go for high-carb or high-protein items, such as fruit, yogurt, whole grain bread, brown rice, legumes, poultry, and fish.
Never go more than 90 minutes after a run without eating. Your muscles refuel most efficiently soon after strenuous activity.
Maintain a healthy diet during your training program
Healthy, high-carb foods should comprise about 60 to 70% of your diet.
Eat at least 4 to 6 ounces of protein per day.
As a rule of thumb, runners require about 1.5 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight
Drink plenty of water every day and especially during training runs 
Leading up to your race day:
Get plenty of sleep during the week of the marathon. 
Do your best to sleep for at least 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night leading up to the race. You might be anxious or excited the night before the race and find it hard to sleep. If you get plenty of rest in the days prior, a restless night before the race will have less of an impact.
Check the weather and dress appropriately for your race. 
It is a good idea to do practice runs with the clothes you will be wearing on race day to make sure they fit properly and do not interfere with your run.
Pack a runner's belt and bag with your essentials. Assemble energy bars or gels, water, sunscreen, sunglasses, a change of clothes, and any other necessities the night before so you’re not scrambling on race day. 
Invite friends and family to come cheer you on! Make sure to give them your bib number and the race details.
Race day
Arrive early to drop gear at bag check, find the starting line, stretch, and use the bathroom!
When the run starts, pace yourself and have fun!
Cross the finish line after 26.2 miles :)
Celebrate with a beer (or two or three)!
Shower!
Sleep! 
Wake up, post race photos on instagram and facebook to tell the world what you accomplished! 
